IN OFFERING THIS VOLUME of “Wild Animals of North America” to members of the National Geographic Society, the Editor combines the text and illustrations of two entire numbers of the National Geographic Magazine—that of November, 1916, devoted to the Larger Mammals of North America, and that of May, 1918, in which the Smaller Mammals of our continent were described and presented pictorially.
Edward W. Nelson, the author of both articles, is one of the foremost naturalists of our time. For forty years he has been the friend and student of North America’s wild-folk. He has made his home in forest and desert, on mountain side and plain, amid the snows of Alaska and the tropic heat of Central American jungles—wherever Nature’s creatures of infinite variety were to be observed, their habits noted, and their range defined.
In the whole realm of scientists, the Geographic could not have found a writer more admirably equipped for the authorship of a book such as “Wild Animals of North America” than Mr. Nelson, for, in addition to his exceptional scientific training and his standing as Chief of the unique U. S. Biological Survey, he possesses the rare quality of the born writer, able to visualize for the reader the things which he has seen and the experiences which he has undergone in seeing them. Each of his animal biographies, of which there are 119 in this volume, is a cameo brochure—concisely and entertainingly presented, yet never deviating from scientific accuracy.
In Mr. Louis Agassiz Fuertes, the National Geographic Society has secured for Mr. Nelson the same gifted artist collaborator which it provided for Henry W. Henshaw, author of “Common Birds of Town and Country,” “The Warblers,” and “American Game Birds,” all of which were assembled in our “Book of Birds.” In the present instance Mr. Fuertes has produced a natural history gallery of paintings of the Larger and Smaller Mammals of North America which is a notable contribution to wild-animal portraiture, and the reproductions of these works of art are among the most effective and lifelike examples of color printing ever produced in this country.
Supplementing the work of Mr. Nelson and Mr. Fuertes is a series of drawings by the noted naturalist and nature-lover, Ernest Thompson Seton, showing the tracks of many of the most widely known mammals.
“Wild Animals of North America” provides in compact and permanent form a natural history for which the National Geographic Society expended $100,000 in the two issues of the Magazine in which the articles and illustrations originally appeared.

TAKE Notice, That in this Edition I have made very many Additions to
every sheet in the book: and, also, that those books of mine that are
printed of that Letter the small Bibles are printed with, are very
falsely printed: there being twenty or thirty gross mistakes in every
sheet, many of them such as are exceedingly dangerous to such as shall
venture to use them: And therefore I do warn the Public of them: I can
do no more at present; only take notice of these Directions by which
you shall be sure to know the True one from the False.

The first Direction.—The true one hath this Title over the head of
every Book, THE COMPLETE HERBAL AND ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. The
small Counterfeit ones have only this Title, THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN.

The second Direction.—The true one hath these words, GOVERNMENT
AND VIRTUES, following the time of the Plants flowering. The
counterfeit small ones have these words, VIRTUES AND USE, following the
time of the Plants flowering.

The third Direction.—The true one is of a larger Letter than the
counterfeit ones, which are in Twelves, & of the Letter small
Bibles used to be printed on. I shall now speak something of the book
itself.

All other Authors that have written of the nature of Herbs, give not
a bit of reason why such an Herb was appropriated to such a part of
the body, nor why it cured such a disease. Truly my own body being
sickly, brought me easily into a capacity, to know that health was
the greatest of all earthly blessings, and truly he was never sick
that doth not believe it. Then I considered that all medicines were
compounded of Herbs, Roots, Flowers, Seeds, & and this first set
me to work in studying the nature of simples, most of which I knew
by sight before; and indeed all the Authors I could read gave me but
little satisfaction in this particular, or none at all. I cannot build
my faith upon Authors’ words, nor believe a thing because they say it,
and could wish every body were of my mind in this,—to labour to be
able to give a reason for every thing they say or do. They say Reason
makes a man differ from a Beast; if that be true, pray what are they
that, instead of reason for their judgment, quote old Authors? Perhaps
their authors knew a reason for what they wrote, perhaps they did not;
what is that to us? Do we know it? Truly in writing this work first,
to satisfy myself, I drew out all the virtues of the vulgar or common
Herbs, Plants, and Trees, & out of the best or most approved authors
I had, or could get; and having done so, I set myself to study the
reason of them. I knew well enough the whole world, and every thing
in it, was formed of a composition of contrary elements, and in such
a harmony as must needs show the wisdom and power of a great God. I
knew as well this Creation, though thus composed of contraries, was one
united body, and man an epitome of it: I knew those various affections
in man, in respect of sickness and health, were caused naturally
(though God may have other ends best known to himself) by the various
operations of the Microcosm; and I could not be ignorant, that as the
cause is, so must the cure be; and therefore he that would know the
reason of the operation of the Herbs, must look up as high as the
Stars, astrologically. I always found the disease vary according to the
various motions of the Stars; and this is enough, one would think, to
teach a man by the effect where the cause lies. Then to find out the
reason of the operation of Herbs, Plants, & by the Stars went I; and
herein I could find but few authors, but those as full of nonsense and
contradiction as an egg is full of meat. This not being pleasing, and
less profitable to me, I consulted with my two brothers, DR. REASON and
DR. EXPERIENCE, and took a voyage to visit my mother NATURE, by whose
advice, together with the help of DR. DILIGENCE, I at last obtained my
desire; and, being warned by MR. HONESTY, a stranger in our days, to
publish it to the world, I have done it.

But you will say, What need I have written on this Subject, seeing so
many famous and learned men have written so much of it in the English
Tongue, much more than I have done?

To this I answer, neither GERRARD nor PARKINSON, or any that ever wrote
in the like nature, ever gave one wise reason for what they wrote, and
so did nothing else but train up young novices in Physic in the School
of tradition, and teach them just as a parrot is taught to speak; an
Author says so, therefore it is true; and if all that Authors say be
true, why do they contradict one another? But in mine, if you view it
with the eye of reason, you shall see a reason for everything that is
written, whereby you may find the very ground and foundation of Physic;
you may know what you do, and wherefore you do it; and this shall call
me Father, it being (that I know of) never done in the world before.
