 They grow commonly almost throughout England, especially in moist and shady places. Having given you a description of the herb from bottom to top, give me leave to tell you, that there are other herbs called by this name; but because they are strangers in England, I give only the description of this, which is easily to be had in the gardens of divers places. It grows in Kent near Rochester, and in many places in the West Country, both in Devonshire and Cornwall. It grows in moist meadows, and such like places. It grows upon banks, near the sides of hedges. They delight not in heat, and therefore they are not so frequently found in the Southern parts of England as in the Northern, where they grow frequently: You may look for them in cold grounds, by ponds and ditches’ sides, and also by running waters; sometimes you shall find them grow in the midst of waters. It is commonly found under hedges, and on the sides of ditches, under houses, or in shadowed lanes, and other waste grounds, in almost every part of this land. This tree or shrub may be found plentifully in St. John’s Wood by Hornsey, and the woods upon Hampstead Heath; as also a wood called the Old Park, in Barcomb, in Essex, near the brook’s sides. It grows usually upon dunghills. They grow almost every where (unless it be in the middle of the street), the yellow most usually in the wet grounds of woods, and sometimes in the dryer, in divers counties of this nation. It grows in watery places, ditches, and the like, which for the most part are dry in summer. It grows frequently in gardens. They grow wild in many places under hedge’s sides, and by the path-ways in fields; yet they rather delight to grow in shadowy than sunny places. It grows in gardens. They grow in meadow and pastures both wet and dry, and by the hedges. It grows by the ditch side, brooks and other water-courses, generally through this land, and is seldom found far from the water-side. It grows frequently in woods, and delights in shady places. It grows in woods amongst oaks and other trees, and in parks, forests, and chases, to feed deer; and in other places to fatten swine. The first grows in forests, on the heaths, and such like barren places: the red grows in the north parts of this land, as Lancashire, Yorkshire, &c. It is an usual inhabitant in woods, copses, and in many places in this land. It usually grows in woods. These grow on heaths, and many open untilled places of this land. It grows wild in many places in England and Wales, as between Greenhithe and Gravesend. They grow in shadowy moist woods, and at the foot of hills, but are chiefly nourished up in gardens. The narrow leafed Bistort grows in the north, in Lancashire, Yorkshire, and Cumberland. It grows in moist, shadowy, grassy places of woods, in many places of this realm. They grow in gardens, and wild in many places in this land. It grows wild in many places of this land, and may be plentifully found near London, as between Rotherhithe and Deptford, by the ditch side. Its virtues are held to be the same with Borage and Bugloss, only this is somewhat hotter. They grow in cornfields, amongst all sorts of corn (pease, beans, and tares excepted.) If you please to take them up from thence, and transplant them in your garden, especially towards the full of the moon, they will grow more double than they are, and many times change colour. They are only nursed in the gardens in England, where they will grow very well. It grows on banks, or under hedges, through this land; the roots lie very deep. They grow in small standing waters, and usually near Water-Cresses. It grows in copses, and upon heaths and waste grounds, and oftentimes under or near the holly bushes. They grow in many places of this land commonly, and as commonly spoil all the land they grow in. They grow in sandy grounds, as in Tothill-fields by Westminster, and divers other places of this land. They grow in dry, barren, sandy grounds. They grow in woods, copses, and fields, generally throughout England, but the white flowered Bugle is not so plentiful as the former. It first grows frequently in gardens. The wild kind grows in divers counties of this land, especially in Huntingdon, in Northamptonshire, in the meadows there: as also near London, by Pancras church, and by a causeway-side in the middle of a field by Paddington. They grow plentifully by ditches and water-sides, and by the highways almost everywhere through this land. They are generally planted in gardens. They grow in many places upon the sea-coasts, as well on the Kentish as Essex shores; as at Lid in Kent, Colchester in Essex, and divers other places, and in other counties of this land. It grows on heaths, and uplands, and dry grounds, in many places of this land. They grow commonly through this land by fields and hedge-sides, and ditches. The wild kind grows in divers parts of this land plentifully by the field-sides, and untilled places. It is usually sown with us in gardens. They grow in many places by old walls, hedges and way-sides in untilled places; and being once planted in a garden, especially some shady places, it will remain there. It grows for the most part in moist corners of fields and places that are near water sides, yet will abide in drier ground if they be a little shady. They grow ordinarily in fields, pastures, and woods, but that with the white flowers not so frequently as the other. For the place of its growth, it is afforded room in every orchard. They grow not naturally in this land, but are cherished in gardens for their virtues. The first is sown in gardens for a sallad herb; the second grows wild in many of the meadows of this land, and by the hedge sides, and on heaths. This grows in gardens. They are usually found in moist and watery places, by wood sides, and elsewhere. It grows by wood sides, hedge sides, the path-way in fields, and in the borders and corners of them almost through all this land. This grows in gardens. It grows commonly in this nation in barren places; you may find it plentifully, if you look in the fields near Gray’s Inn, and near Chelsea. It grows by the hedge and ditch-sides in many places of this land, and is so troublesome an inhabitant in gardens, that it ramps upon, and is ready to choak what ever grows near it. It grows in sundry counties of this land, both north and west, and frequently by path-sides in the fields near about London, and within three or four miles distant about it, yet it usually grows in or near ditches. It grows upon hedges, and sometimes in the open fields, in divers places of this land. It grows as well in wet grounds as in drier places. They grow by ditches and water-sides, and in divers fields that are moist, for therein they chiefly delight to grow. The first generally through all the land, and the other but in some places. By the leave of my authors, I know the first grows in dry places. The first grows in Mayfield in Sussex, in a wood called Highread, and in another wood there also, called Fox-holes. They grow in dry, barren, sandy, and gravelly grounds, in most places of this land. It grows plentifully in the fens in Lincolnshire. It is a common herb, grows usually by the way-side, and sometimes upon mud walls about London, but it delights to grow most among stones and rubbish. They grow in the way-sides in untilled places, and by the sides of old walls. They grow, for the most part, in small standing waters, yet sometimes in small rivulets of running water. It grows in many moist grounds, well in meadows as untilled places, about London, in Hampstead church-yard, at Wye in Kent, and sundry other places. They grow very common every where; unless you turn your head into a hedge you cannot but see them as you walk. These two sorts grow frequently almost under every hedge-side in many places of this land. It grows frequently in all meadows and pasture-grounds. The country husbandmen do know this too well to grow among their corn, or in the borders and pathways of the other fields that are fallow. It is most usually sown in gardens and grounds for the purpose, and is also found wild in many places. The first grows as well in dry meadows and fields as moist, in many places of this land: But the other two are more rare, and hard to be met with, yet they are both found growing wild about Appledore, near Rye in Kent. It grows commonly through this land in divers ploughed grounds to the no small trouble of the husbandmen, as also of the gardeners, in gardens, to weed it out, if they can; for it is a constant customer to the place it get footing in. It grows in pasture grounds, and by the path-sides in many places, and will also be in gardens. It grows in divers ditches, banks, and in corn-fields, and highways, generally every where throughout the land. The Elder-tree grows in hedges, being planted there to strengthen the fences and partitions of ground, and to hold the banks by ditches and water-courses. It grows on moist grounds, and shadowy places oftener than in the dry and open borders of the fields and lanes, and in other waste places, almost in every county of this land. It is found about the sea coast in almost every county of this land which borders upon the sea. It grows in meadows, and grassy land. They grow both in heaths and in shady places near the hedge-sides in all counties of this land. It grows on moors, bogs, and watery places, in many parts of this land. This grows wild in many places of the land, but is for the most part nourished in gardens. It grows plentifully in the salt low marshes near Feversham in Kent. It grows frequently in moist and shadowy woods, and in the lower parts of the fields and meadows. It grows in many places of this land, in the corners of dry fields and meadows, and the hedge sides. It usually grows in watery ditches, ponds, lakes, and moor sides, which are always overflowed with water. This grows throughout this land, both by the way sides and in meadows, as also by hedge-sides, and upon the sides of banks, and borders of fields. The first grows only in gardens, the second plentifully in fields that are near the sea. They flower wild in the fields by hedge-sides and highways, and among rubbish and other places. They grow in divers corn fields, and in borders about them, and in other fertile grounds about Southfleet in Kent abundantly; at Buchrite, Hamerton, and Rickmanworth in Huntingdonshire, and in divers other places. It grows on dry sandy ground for the most part, and as well on the higher as the lower places under hedge-sides in almost every county of this land. It grows in corn fields almost every where, as well as in gardens. They are known to grow on dry barren heaths, and other waste, gravelly or sandy grounds, in all counties of this land. The first grows in divers places of both the East and West counties, and as well in wet as in dry grounds; as near Longfield, by Gravesend, near Cobham in Kent, near Lillinstone in Kent, also in a chalk pit hard by a paper-mill not far from Dartford in Kent. The second grows also in divers places in Kent, as about Southfleet, and Longfield; upon Barton’s hills in Bedfordshire; also not far from St. Albans, upon a piece of waste chalky ground, as you go out by Dunstable way towards Gorhambury. It grows usually with us in gardens. This grows as well in upland grounds, as in moist places, woods, and shadowy places by the sea-side in many places of this land, and is usually nursed up in gardens. It grows in the open places of woods and copses, on both moist and dry grounds, in many places of this land. It grows by hedge and wall-sides, and often in the border and corner of fields, and in gardens also. The two first grow wild in barren or untilled places, and by the way side in many places of this land. The last is a nursling in the gardens of the curious. It grows seldom in fields, but frequent in the woods northwards, _viz._ in Yorkshire, Lancashire, and Scotland. They grow almost every where, as well on tops of walls, as at the foot amongst rubbish and untilled grounds, but especially in gardens. Besides those which are brought up in gardens, they grow commonly wild in the fields, especially in such as are very barren: sometimes you may find it on the tops of the high hills. It grows in divers places about the field sides, and the path-ways in dry grounds. It grows in all counties of this land, by walls and hedge-sides, in waste grounds and untilled places. It commonly grows by the way-sides, and under hedge-sides and walls. They grow in wet low grounds, and by the water-sides; the last may be found among the bogs on Hampstead Heath. The first is maintained in gardens. The second is commonly found in the woods in Northamptonshire. This grows frequently every where by the way-sides, upon ditch banks and waste grounds wheresoever one goes. It grows in woods and copses, and sometimes in the corners or borders of fields, and waste grounds in very many places of this land, and abundantly in the woods, copses, and other places about Chislehurst and Maidstone in Kent. They delight to grow in low moist grounds, and are found in all parts of this land. It is found in many parts of this land, in dry grounds, and waste green places. This (as most of the other sorts hereof) grows in wet grounds. It grows commonly upon walls and house-sides, and flowers in July. It grows in moist places of this land, in waste grounds, and untilled places, by highway sides, lanes, and hedge-sides. This grows in woods and copses, as well those that are shady, as open to the sun. They grow plentifully in divers woods in Kent, Warney common near Brentwood in Essex, upon Finchley Common without Highgate; hard by the Newfound Wells near Dulwich, upon a Common between Mitcham and Croydon, in the Highgate near Amersham in Buckinghamshire, and many other places. It grows very plentifully in many places of this land, but especially in all the west parts thereof, upon stone and mud walls, upon rocks also, and in stony places upon the ground, at the bottom of old trees, and sometimes on the bodies of them that are decayed and rotten. It grows in most fields and meadows, and about their borders and hedges, and in many waste grounds also every where. It grows in every county of this land by the highway sides, and by foot-paths in fields; as also by the sides of old walls. It grows naturally in many pastures and wood sides in Hertfordshire, Wiltshire, and Kent, and other places of this land. They grow in moist places, and near to brooksides. They are found growing in great pools, and standing waters, and sometimes in slow running rivers, and lesser ditches of water, in sundry places of this land. They grow plentifully upon Hampstead-Heath, and many other places in this nation. It is planted in fields and gardens, in divers places of this land, and thereof good profit is made. It grows in many places of the land in moist meadows, and by water sides. It grows usually by rivers, and ditch-sides in wet ground, as about the ditches at and near Lambeth, and in many places of this land. It is usually planted in gardens, where, if it be suffered, it grows huge and great. It is only manured in gardens, or larger fields, for the profit that is made thereof. It grows upon old stone walls in the West parts in Kent, and divers other places of this land; it delights likewise to grow by springs, wells, and rocky moist and shady places, and is always green. It grows in many places of this land, at Dartford, and the bridge at Ashford in Kent, at Beaconsfield in Buckinghamshire, at Wolly in Huntingtonshire, on Framlingham Castle in Suffolk, on the church walls at Mayfield in Sussex, in Somersetshire, and divers other places of this land; and is green in Winter as well as Summer. It grows in bogs and moorish places, and also on dry shady places, as Hampstead Heath, and elsewhere. The common Mallows grow in every county of this land. The common Marsh-mallows in most of the salt marshes, from Woolwich down to the sea, both on the Kentish and Essex shores, and in divers other places of this land. It grows plentifully in the borders of corn fields, and in some copses. They grow commonly in gardens; some sorts grow wild in the borders of corn fields and pastures, in sundry places of this land; but it is not my purpose to insist upon them. The garden kinds being most used and useful. It is usually kept in gardens with us in England. It grows plentifully in many places of this land, as in the edge of Suffolk and in Essex, as also in Huntingdonshire, and in other places, but most usually in corn fields, in corners of meadows. The male and female French Mercury are found wild in divers places of this land, as by a village called Brookland in Rumney Marsh in Kent. It is an usual inhabitant in gardens; and because it seldom gives any good seed, the seed is recompensed by the plentiful increase of the root, which being once planted in a garden, will hardly be rid out again. It grows very rarely on oaks with us; but upon sundry others as well timber as fruit trees, plentifully in woody groves, and the like, through all this land. It grows plentifully in almost all places of this land, commonly in moist grounds by hedge-sides, and in the middle of grassy fields. It grows on hills and heaths, yet where there is much grass, for therein it delights to grow. The Ground Moss grows in our moist woods, and at the bottom of hills, in boggy grounds, and in shadowy ditches and many other such like places. The Tree Moss grows only on trees. It grows only in gardens with us in England. It grows on ditch banks, and sometimes in ditches, if they be dry, and in sandy grounds. It grows plentifully in many places of this land, by the water-sides; as also by small water courses, and in divers other places. It grows by way-sides and lanes, in many places of this land. This grows with us in gardens only, and other manured places. This grows frequently in this land, by the ways and hedge-sides, and sometimes in the open fields. It grows commonly upon old stone and brick walls, and sometimes in gravelly grounds, especially if there be grass or moss near to shadow it. It is only nursed up in our gardens. It grows wild with us under our walls, and in rubbish, the common paths, and sides of hedges and fields, as also in our gardens here in England, without any planting. It grows in moist, shadowy and grassy places of woods, in many parts of this land. It is frequent in almost every county of this land, and is cherished in gardens with us, where it grows greater than that which is wild, and grows in shadowy sides of fields and woods. It is a common herb throughout the nation, and rejoices in barren, sandy, moist places. It may be found plentifully about Hampstead Heath, Hyde Park, and in Tothill-fields. The name of the first shews the place of its growth. The other grows wild in divers places, as in the marshes in Rochester, and elsewhere, and flowers in July; the seed being ripe about the beginning of August, the second year after its sowing; for if they do flower the first year, the country people call them Madneps. It grows in moist meadows, and the borders and corners of fields, and near ditches, through this land. They are nursed in gardens and orchards through this land. The last grows in fields by the hedge sides and paths, almost every where. It grows wild generally through the land, about the borders of fields, and by the sides of walls, and among rubbish. It will endure well being brought up in gardens, and planted on the shady side, where it will spring of its own sowing. The first, which is common in gardens, grows also in many moist and watery places of this land. It grows naturally in many places of this land, as at Clare in Essex; also near unto Exeter in Devonshire; upon Rochester common in Kent; in Lancashire, and divers other places; but usually kept in gardens. Those with the pale blue, and those with the white flowers, grow in woods and orchards, by the hedge-sides, in divers places of this land; but those with the purple flowers, in gardens only. It grows in many groves, and small low woods, in divers places of this land, as in Kent, Huntingdon, Cambridge, and Northamptonshire; as also near water-courses in other places. It grows almost every where as well in the meadows and corn-fields, as by the way-sides, and in gardens, arising of itself. It grows more plentifully in Kent than any other county of this land, as namely, in many places on this side Dartford, along to Southfleet, Chatham, and Rochester, and upon Chatham down, hard by the Beacon, and half a mile from Rochester, in a field near a house called Selesys. They grow in moist woods, and by water-sides in sundry places of this land; yet the White is not so frequent as the other. The garden kinds do not naturally grow wild in any place, but all are sown in gardens where they grow. It grows in this land, in divers woods. It grows in moist meadows that lie mostly wet, or near the courses of water. It is found wild in some places, but is chiefly planted in gardens, and joys in moist and shadowy places. They grow, both of them, wild in pastures, and untilled grounds in many places, and oftentimes both in one field. They grow in meadows and woods generally through this land. It grows in many places of this land, as well in the arable as waste ground. It is found wild in divers places of this land. It grows of its own accord in gardens and fields, by the way-sides, in divers places, and particularly in the next pasture to the Conduit-head behind Gray’s Inn, that brings water to Mr. Lamb’s conduit in Holborn. It grows usually in bogs and wet places, and sometimes in moist woods. It grows in gardens, and flowers about the beginning and middle of June, and the seed is ripe in July. It grows in many places of this land, in the borders of moist meadows, and ditch-sides. It grows in dry, sandy, and rocky places. It grows frequently at Walden in Essex, and in Cambridgeshire. It grows in woods, and by wood-sides; as also in divers fields and bye-lanes in the land. It is frequent in divers places of this land; as, namely in a wood two miles from Canterbury, by Fish-Pool Hill, as also in Bushy Close belonging to the parsonage of Alderbury, near Clarendon, two miles from Salisbury: in Cheffon wood, on Chesson Hill, between Newington and Sittingbourn in Kent, and divers other places in Essex, and other counties. It grows on the rocks that are often moistened at the least, if not overflowed with the sea water. It is found in many shadowy woods, and other places of this land. It grows in moist and wet grounds, by wood-sides, and sometimes in moist places of shadowy groves, as also by the water side. It grows under walls, and by hedge-sides, and path-ways in fields in many places. It grows in many places of our land, as well in the lower-most, as in the upper dry corners of meadows, and grassy sandy places. It used to grow near Lamb’s conduit, on the backside of Gray’s Inn. These grow in moist meadows of this land, and are easy to be found being well sought for among the grass, wherein many times they lay hid scarcely to be discerned. The first grows more usually in meadows, especially about London every where. It grows all along the Thames sides, both on the Essex and Kentish shores, from Woolwich round about the sea coasts to Dover, Portsmouth, and even to Bristol, where it is had in plenty; the other with round leaves grows in the marshes in Holland, in Lincolnshire, and other places of Lincolnshire by the sea side. It is found in woods and fields every where. They are frequent in this nation, almost by every path-side. It grows naturally in dry and marshy ground; but if it be sown in gardens, it there prospers very well. It grows wild in many low and wet grounds of this land, by brooks and the sides of running waters. It grows in many places of our land, in woods and wood-sides, where they be moist and shadowed, and in other places not too much upon the Sun. They grow in gardens and manured grounds, sometimes by old walls, pathsides of fields, and high ways. It grows wild in Lancashire, Yorkshire, and other northern counties, and is also planted in gardens. It grows as well upon stone walls, as moist and shadowy places, about Bristol, and other west parts plentifully; as also on Framlingham Castle, on Beaconsfield church in Berkshire, at Stroud in Kent, and elsewhere, and abides green all the Winter. It grows wild in the fields about London in many places, as at Mile-End green, and many other places. This grows in many places of our land in waste untilled and barren fields. The other only in gardens. It grows upon the stone walls and mud walls, upon the tiles of houses and pent-houses, and amongst rubbish, and in other gravelly places. This came from some parts of Brazil, as it is thought, and is more familiar in our country than any of the other sorts; early giving ripe seed, which the others seldom do. It grows in every place. Some grow in fields, some in meadows, and some among the corn; others on heaths, greens, and waste grounds in many places. They grow in many moist meadows of this land, as well in the southern, as in the northern parts. It is frequent on the banks of almost every ditch. It grows on divers ditch-banks, and in the corn-fields, and highways, generally throughout the land, and is often growing in gardens. The first grows, being sown in gardens or fields for the use of clothworkers: The other near ditches and rills of water in many places of this land. They grow in sundry places in this land, as half a mile from Hatfield, by the river side, under a hedge as you go to Hatfield, and in the street of Peckham on Surrey side. It grows in every county in the hedges and borders of fields. It is found growing in many corn-fields and pasture grounds in this land. It may be found commonly in commons, and other barren places throughout the nation. It grows as well in woods and shadowy places, as in the open champain country, about the borders of fields in many places of this land, and almost in every broom field in Essex. It grows in gardens, and flowers and seeds with us, notwithstanding it is not natural to this land, but to Italy, Spain, and France, where it grows plentifully. They grow almost every where in this land. It grows between Longford and Bow, and beyond Southwark, by the highway and parts adjacent. It grows in many woods, groves, and woody grounds, as parks and forests, and by hedge-sides in many places in this land, as in Hampstead wood, by Ratley in Essex, in the wilds of Kent, and in many other places needless to recite. It is generally kept with us in gardens. It grows generally throughout this land in divers places of the hedges and way-sides, and other waste grounds. The first grows wild almost every where. That with white flowers about the castle-walls at Lewis in Sussex. It grows upon church walls, and old walls of many houses, and other stone walls in divers places; The other sort in gardens only. It grows every where by the way sides, in moist grounds, as well as dry, in corners of fields and bye lanes, and sometimes all over the field. In Sussex and Kent they call it Green Weed. It is sowed in fields for the benefit of it, where those that sow it, cut it three times a year. It grows familiarly in England, by the sea-side. It grows upon the tops of the mountains (it seems ’tis aspiring) there ’tis natural, but usually nursed up in gardens for the use of the apothecaries in London. It is frequent in all pastures.