 The leaves shoot out about the latter end of March, if the temperature of the air be ordinary; it flowers in July, and the seeds are ripe soon after, usually in the next month. Although Gerrard saith, that they flower from the beginning of May to the end of December, experience teaches them that keep it in their gardens, that it flowers not till the latter end of the summer, and sheds its seeds presently after. They flower in July and the beginning of August, and the seed is ripe soon after, but the root is in its prime, as carrots and parsnips are, before the herb runs up to stalk. It is to be found in May or April, for it quickly perishes with a little heat. It flowers in July and August, the seed being ripe shortly after. They all flower in July or August, and the seed is ripe presently after. They flower somewhat early, and abide a great while; the leaves continue green until Winter, and sometimes abide, except the Winter be very sharp and cold. It flowers in June and July; the seed is ripe in August. It flowers in May, and the berries are ripe in September. They continue in flower from August till the time the frost nips them. It flowers and seeds from June to the end of August. They flower in June and July, and their seed is ripe quickly after. They flower from the beginning of the Spring all the Summer long. It flowers in June, and the seed is ripe in August. They keep their leaves green all Winter; but shoot forth new in the Spring, and with them come forth those heads or flowers which give ripe seed about Midsummer, or somewhat after. For the most part they flower, and bear their berries late in the year, or not at all, although they are housed in Winter. They flower in May or June for the most part, and their seed is ripe in July at the farthest. It must be sowed late, and flowers in the heart of Summer, being a very tender plant. They flower in May for the most part, and the seed is ripe in July and August. It flowers about July, and the seed is ripe in August. And it flowers in July; after which the seed is quickly ripe, yet in its prime in May. It blooms in the end of April, or beginning of May, for the most part, and the fruit is ripe in September. They flower in March and April, and the fruit of the black is ripe in July and August. They flower and seed in the end of Summer. They flower about the end of May, and the seed is ripe about the beginning of July. It flowers about May, and the berries are ripe in June, and then quickly perishes, until the next year it springs from the same again. They seed in August and September. They flower in June and July, and the seed is ripe shortly after. They flower from the beginning of May, to the end of the harvest. It flowers in June and July. It flowers in July and August, some earlier, and some later than the other. And flower in June and July, giving seed the next month after. It shoots forth its young buds in the Spring, and the berries are ripe about September, the branches of leaves abiding green all the Winter. They flower in the Summer months, and give their seed before Winter. They flower and seed in May, June, and July, and their green leaves do in a manner abide fresh all the Winter. They flower and seed when the rest of the Plantains do. They flower from May until July, and in the mean time perfect their seed. The roots and leaves next thereunto upon the ground abiding all the Winter. They flower about the end of June and beginning of July, and their seed is ripe in August. Their flower time is towards the middle, or end of July, and the seed is ripe in August. They flower and seed about the time that other kinds do. They flower in July and their seed is ripe quickly after. They flower in Summer, some earlier than others, and some abiding longer than others. They flower in August, and seed not long after. They flower and seed in the end of Summer. They flower in June and July, and seed quickly after. They flower all the Summer, and the seed ripens in the mean time. It flowers betimes, about March or April, is quite gone by May; so it cannot be found till it spring again. They flower in July or thereabouts, and seeds within a month after. They flower not until the middle or latter end of July; and the fruit is ripe about August, or the beginning of September. They flower and seed early, and thereupon are sown again in the end of Summer. They flower about June, and their seed is ripe in July. It flowers in summer, some sooner, some later. It flowers in June and July, some a little later than others, and their seed is ripe in August, or thereabouts. They flower from the beginning of June to the latter end of August. It flowers in June or July, and the seed is ripe and falls again in the end of July or August, from whence it springs up again, and not from the old roots. It flowers in June or July, and the seed is ripe soon after. They flower all the months of July and August, and the seed ripen in the mean while. They flower in May, and abide not for the most part when June is past, perfecting their seed in the mean time. And flowers in the end of February, the leaves begin to appear in March. They flower in June or July, and give their seed in August. They flower from the latter end of April to the middle of May, and before the middle of July they are gone, and not to be found. It flowers in June and July. They flower about July, some earlier, some later, and their seed is ripe in August. They flower in April and May. It flowers in June, and usually from thence till August. It flowers in June and July, and the seed is ripe in August and September. They flower in the end of June, and their seed is ripe in July. They flower and seed in the beginning of Summer. It flowers from May all the Summer long, in one place or other, as they are more open to the sun; the seed ripens soon after. They flower in May and June, even till September. They shoot forth leaves in the Spring, and continue but until the middle of Summer, or somewhat later; their husks appearing before the fall away, and their fruit shewing in April. It flowers in one place or other almost all the year long. They flower not usually until August. It flowers in June, July, and August, some earlier and some later; and the seed is ripe quickly after. It flowers and bears seed about the end of Summer, when other thistles do flower and seed. Most of the Elder Trees, flower in June, and their fruit is ripe for the most part in August. But the Dwarf Elder, or Wall-wort, flowers somewhat later, and his fruit is not ripe until September. It flowers in the end of June and July, and the seed is ripe in August. The roots are gathered for use, as well in the Spring before the leaves come forth, as in Autumn or Winter. It flowers in the end of Summer, and gives ripe seed within a month after. They flower and give their seed at Midsummer. It is green all the summer, and the root only abides in winter. It flowers in the months of June and July. It flowers plentifully in July and August. It flowers about July, and the seed will be ripe about a month after the flowers are fallen. They flower in June and July, and their seed is ripe in August. It flowers in July, and the seed is ripe in August. It flowers in Summer, and the seed is ripe usually before the end of August. They flower in July or thereabouts. They flower and seed quickly after, namely in June and July. The flaggy kinds thereof have the most physical uses; the dwarf kinds thereof flowers in April, the greater sorts in May. They are in flower about June and July, and the whole plant is dry and withered before August be done. It seldom flowers before July, and the seed is ripe in August. It flowers in May, for the most part, and the seed ripens shortly after. They also flower in the Summer months. They flower in August. And flowers in June and July. It flowers not until July, and the seed is ripe in August or September, yet the husks after they are ripe, opening themselves, will hold their seed with them for two or three months, and not shed them. It flowers about the month of July. It flowers and seeds about the end of July. They all flower from Midsummer until September sometimes, and in the mean time the seed ripens. It flowers about June and July. It flowers, as was said before, almost every month throughout the year. They flower all the Spring and Summer long. It is green all the Winter; but new leaves spring every year. It flowers and flies away in the Summer months. It flowers and seeds in July, or thereabouts. It is sown in the very end of March, or beginning of April, and is ripe in August or September. It flowers in July, and springs again yearly of its own seed. I doubt my authors mistook July for June, if not for May. They flower in June or July, and the seed is ripe presently after. The first flowers in December or January; the second in February or March. It flowers in June and July chiefly, and the seed is ripe shortly after. They spring up in the middle of April or May, and are in flower soon after. The berries are ripe in the end of May, and in some places in June. They spring not until April, and flower not until the latter end of June; the heads are not gathered until the middle or latter end of September. It flowers in July, and the seed is ripe in August. They spring up in April, and their blooming catkins in July, seeding for the most part in August, and then perish down to the ground, rising afresh in the Spring. It flowers about May or June, and the seed is ripe shortly after. They flower about Midsummer and July, and their seed is ripe in the latter end of July or August. It flowers not until July, and the berries are not ripe till Christmas, when they have felt Winter frosts. The berries are not ripe the first year, but continue green two Summers and one Winter before they are ripe; at which time they are all of a black colour, and therefore you shall always find upon the bush green berries; the berries are ripe about the fall of the leaf. It usually flowers in the beginning of May, and the seed ripening quickly after, sheds itself; so that about the end of May, usually the stalks and leaves are withered, dry, and gone until September, then the leaves spring up again, and so abide all winter. It usually flowers in June and July, and the seed is ripe shortly after. It springs up late in the Spring, and abides until the Winter, when all the branches perish. It flowers in May and June, abides after seedtime green all the Winter. It flowers about the end of June, and beginning of July. They flower in April and May, and the lower leaves continue green all the Winter. They flower most commonly about the end of May, and their seed is ripe in August. They flower in May, and the seed is ripe in September. It flowers from June to August. It flowers in the months of June and July. It flowers in the end of July, and seeds in August. It flowers towards the end of Summer, and the seed is ripe quickly after. They flower all the Summer months, even until the Winter do pull them down. It flowers towards the latter end of the Summer. They flower in the end of Summer. They flower all the Summer long, and sometimes in Winter, if it be mild. It flowers and seeds about the end of August. It flowers in June and July, and is ripe quickly after. They flower in the Summer months, and therein give their seed. It flowers not until the beginning of August, for the most part. It flowers in the Spring-time, but the berries are not ripe until October, and abides on the branches all the Winter, unless the blackbirds, and other birds, do devour them. They flower in June and July, and their seed is ripe quickly after. It is to be found only in April and May; for in June, when any hot weather comes, for the most part it is withered and gone. It flowers about June or July, and abides green all the Winter. It flowers and seeds in the end of Summer. It bears fruit in the months of July and August. It flowers in July or thereabouts. It is an annual plant, flowering in July, and the seed is ripe in August. It flowers most usually about July. They flower very early in the year, sometimes in January, and in February; for before the end of April they are not to be found. And it flowers in July, or thereabouts. It lies down every year, and rises up again of its own sowing, but springs not until the latter end of April at the soonest. It flowers about May, and the berries are ripe in June, and then quickly perishes, until the next year it springs from the same root again. One or other of them may be found in flower from the beginning of April to the latter end of August. It flowers about July, and the seed is ripe in August. It may be found all the Summer-time, even from the beginning of April to the end of October. It flowers in July, and seeds in August. They flower in the Spring, and fructify in Autumn. It flowers at the latter end of June and July. It flowers in June and July, and the seed is ripe soon after. They flower in the latter end of Summer, about August. It flowers in the end of June, and in July. They flower in March and April. It flowers in June and July, and the seed is ripe in August. It flowers from May until April, and the seed ripens in the mean time, and falls. It flowers and gives seed in the Summer months. It is in its beauty about June, and the seed ripens shortly after. It being always green, may be gathered for use at any time. Their time is likewise expressed before: The catkins coming forth before the leaves in the end of Summer. The garden kinds are usually sown in the spring, which then flower about the end of May, and somewhat earlier, if they spring of their own sowing. Our Privet flowers in June and July, the berries are ripe in August and September. It flowers in some places or other all the three Summer months, that is, June, July, and August, and the seed is ripe soon after. It seldom flowers, but when it doth, it is in July. They flower in June and July, and the seed is ripe in August. They are in flower from Midsummer until August be past, sometimes. It flowers about the beginning or middle of July, and the seed is ripe in August. It flowers about June or July, and the seed is ripe in August. It flowers in May, seeds in June, and then perishes. It flowers in June, and the leaves are then fittest to be gathered. It flowers in April and May with us, sometimes again in August. The roots that are to be dried and kept all the year following, are not to be taken up before the stalk and leaves be quite turned red and gone, and that is not until the middle or end of October, and if they be taken a little before the leaves do spring, or when they are sprung up, the roots will not have half so good a colour in them. It flowers about July, or the beginning of August. It is fresh and green all the Summer. It flowers in or about July. It flowers in June, July, and August. It flowers about May: The root abides and shoots a-new every year. And it flowers and seeds in the end of July and August. It flowers in June, and the seed is ripe shortly after. It flowers in July, and the seed is soon ripe, and carried away with the wind. It flowers in June, July, and August. It flowers in May, and then gathered, as well for that which is called the seed, as to distil, for it quickly perishes down to the ground when any hot weather comes. They flower about July, and their seed is ripe in August. They flower in June and July, and some abide flowering until it be late in August, and the seed is ripe in the mean time. It flowers in April and May, and gives seed ripe quickly after. It flowers in May, and sometimes in April. It flowers before the end of May, and the fruit is ripe in October. They flower all the Summer long; nay some of them are so fruitful, that they flower twice a year. It abides green all the Winter, and seeds in August. It flowers usually in July, and so continues all August, and part of September, before they be quite spent. It flowers in April and May. It flowers for the most part in July and August. It flowers early, and seeds in July, and sometimes in August. They flower in May ordinarily, and the fruit is ripe shortly after. It flowers in June and July, and the leaves are green all the Winter. It flowers from June, sometimes to the end of August, or later, and the seed ripens in the mean time. It flowers about the end of May, or June, and the seed is ripe and blown away in the beginning of September. It flowers in June and July. It flowers in June and July. They flower in June and August and their seed is ripe quickly after. They flower about July or August, and their seed ripens quickly after. It flowers and seeds in June, July, and August. They flower in July, and are ripe in the end of August. They flower and seed from May to August. It flowers in April, and sometimes in March, but the fruit ripens after all other plums whatsoever, and is not fit to be eaten until the Autumn frost mellow them. It flowers in July, and the seed is ripe in August. It flowers all the Summer long. It flowers later than St. John’s or St. Peter’s-wort. It flowers in June and July, and continues flowering until the frost pull it down. It flowers in July, and the seed is ripe soon after. They flower until the end of July, but are best in March, and the beginning of April. They flower in Summer, and their seed is ripe quickly after. All the single kinds do flower many times in the end of Autumn; and if the Winter be mild, all the Winter long, but especially in the months of February, March, and April, and until the heat of the spring do spend them. But the double kinds continue not flowering in that manner all the year long, although they flower very early sometimes, and in some places very late. It blossoms early before the leaves come forth, and the fruit is ripe in September. It flowers in June. It flowers in June, but it is long after before the seed is ripe. They flower in June, and the fruit is ripe in August. All Wormwoods usually flower in August, a little sooner or later. It flowers late, even in the latter end of August.